# P1205 [USACO1.2] 方块转换 Transformations

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| 题目编号 | P1205 |
| 题目来源 | [洛谷](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1205) |
| 难度 | 普及/提高− |
| 标签 | 入门与面试 / 数学 / 并查集 |
| 时间限制 | 1000 ms |
| 内存限制 | 125 MB |
| 总提交数 | 149394 |
| 总通过数 | 48777 |
| 爬取时间 | 2026-06-06 00:23:12 |

## 题目描述

A square pattern of size $N \times N$ ($1 \le N \le 10$) black and white square tiles is transformed into another square pattern. Write a program that will recognize the minimum transformation that has been applied to the original pattern given the following list of possible transformations:

- #1: 90 Degree Rotation: The pattern was rotated clockwise $90$ degrees.
- #2: 180 Degree Rotation: The pattern was rotated clockwise $180$ degrees.
- #3: 270 Degree Rotation: The pattern was rotated clockwise $270$ degrees.
- #4: Reflection: The pattern was reflected horizontally (turned into a mirror image of itself by reflecting around a vertical line in the middle of the image).
- #5: Combination: The pattern was reflected horizontally and then subjected to one of the rotations (#1-#3).
- #6: No Change: The original pattern was not changed.
- #7: Invalid Transformation: The new pattern was not obtained by any of the above methods.

In the case that more than one transform could have been used, choose the one with the minimum number above.

## 输入格式

- Line 1: A single integer, $N$.
- Line 2..$N+1$: $N$ lines of $N$ characters (each either `@` or `-`); this is the square before transformation.
- Line $N+2$..$2N+1$: $N$ lines of $N$ characters (each either `@` or `-`); this is the square after transformation.

## 输出格式

A single line containing the number from $1$ through $7$ described above that categorizes the transformation required to change from the "before" representation to the "after" representation.

## 样例 #1

### 样例输入

```
3
@-@
---
@@-
@-@
@--
--@
```

### 样例输出

```
1
```

## 提示

USACO Training Section 1.2.
