# P1202 [USACO1.1] 黑色星期五 Friday the Thirteenth

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| 题目编号 | P1202 |
| 题目来源 | [洛谷](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1202) |
| 难度 | 普及− |
| 标签 | 入门与面试 / 字符串 / 并查集 |
| 时间限制 | 1000 ms |
| 内存限制 | 125 MB |
| 总提交数 | 28606 |
| 总通过数 | 17986 |
| 爬取时间 | 2026-06-06 00:23:12 |

## 题目描述

Is Friday the 13th really an unusual event?

That is, does the 13th of the month land on a Friday less often than on any other day of the week? To answer this question, write a program that will compute the frequency that the 13th of each month lands on Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday over a given period of $N$ years. The time period to test will be from January 1, 1900 to December 31, $1900+N-1$ for a given number of years, $N$. $N$ is positive and will not exceed $400$.

**Note that the start year is nineteen hundred, not nineteen ninety.**

There are a few facts you need to know before you can solve this problem:

- January 1, 1900 was on a Monday.
- Thirty days has September, April, June, and November, all the rest have $31$ except for February which has $28$ except in leap years when it has $29$.
- Every year evenly divisible by $4$ is a leap year.
- The rule above does not hold for century years. Century years divisible by $400$ are leap years, all others are not. Thus, the century years $1700$, $1800$, $1900$ and $2100$ are not leap years, but $2000$ is a leap year.

Do not use any built-in date functions in your computer language.

Do not just precompute the answers.

## 输入格式

One line with the integer $N$.

## 输出格式

Seven space separated integers on one line. These integers represent the number of times the $13$th falls on Saturday, Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday.

## 样例 #1

### 样例输入

```
20
```

### 样例输出

```
36 33 34 33 35 35 34
```

## 提示

USACO Training Section $1.1$.
