# P1209 [USACO1.3] 修理牛棚 Barn Repair

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| 题目编号 | P1209 |
| 题目来源 | [洛谷](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1209) |
| 难度 | 普及/提高− |
| 标签 | 数学 / 动态规划 / 并查集 / Manacher |
| 时间限制 | 1000 ms |
| 内存限制 | 125 MB |
| 总提交数 | 51884 |
| 总通过数 | 21612 |
| 爬取时间 | 2026-06-06 00:23:15 |

## 题目描述

It was a dark and stormy night that ripped the roof and gates off the stalls that hold Farmer John's cows. Happily, many of the cows were on vacation, so the barn was not completely full.

The cows spend the night in stalls that are arranged adjacent to each other in a long line. Some stalls have cows in them; some do not. All stalls are the same width.

Farmer John must quickly erect new boards in front of the stalls, since the doors were lost. His new lumber supplier will supply him boards of any length he wishes, but the supplier can only deliver a small number of total boards. Farmer John wishes to minimize the total length of the boards he must purchase.

Given $M$ ($1 \le M \le 50$), the maximum number of boards that can be purchased; $S$ ($1 \le S \le 200$), the total number of stalls; $C$ ($1 \le C \le S$) the number of cows in the stalls; and the $C$ occupied stall numbers ($1 \le \text{stall\_number} \le S$), calculate the minimum number of stalls that must be blocked in order to block all the stalls that have cows in them.

Print your answer as the total number of stalls blocked.

## 输入格式

- Line 1: $M$, $S$, and $C$ (space separated).
- Lines 2..$C+1$: Each line contains one integer, the number of an occupied stall.

## 输出格式

A single line with one integer that represents the total number of stalls blocked.

## 样例 #1

### 样例输入

```
4 50 18
3 
4 
6 
8 
14
15 
16 
17 
21
25 
26 
27 
30 
31 
40 
41 
42 
43
```

### 样例输出

```
25
```

## 提示

One minimum arrangement is one board covering stalls $3$-$8$, one covering $14$-$21$, one covering $25$-$31$, and one covering $40$-$43$.

USACO Training Section 1.3.
