# P1606 [USACO07FEB] Lilypad Pond G

| 属性 | 值 |
|------|-----|
| 题目编号 | P1606 |
| 题目来源 | [洛谷](https://www.luogu.com.cn/problem/P1606) |
| 难度 | 普及+/提高 |
| 标签 | 图论 / 随机化 / 并查集 / 整数规划 / Tag-160 |
| 时间限制 | 1000 ms |
| 内存限制 | 125 MB |
| 总提交数 | 9618 |
| 总通过数 | 1950 |
| 爬取时间 | 2026-06-03 01:09:31 |

## 题目描述

FJ has installed a beautiful pond for his cows' aesthetic enjoyment and exercise.

The rectangular pond has been partitioned into square cells of M rows and N columns (1 ≤ M ≤ 30; 1 ≤ N ≤ 30). Some of the cells have astonishingly sturdy lilypads; others have rocks; the remainder are just beautiful, cool, blue water.

Bessie is practicing her ballet moves by jumping from one lilypad to another and is currently located at one of the lilypads. She wants to travel to another lilypad in the pond by jumping from one lilypad to another.

Surprising only to the uninitiated, Bessie's jumps between lilypads always appear as a chess-knight's move: one move in one direction and then two more in the orthogonal direction (or perhaps two in one direction and then one in the orthogonal direction).

Farmer John is observing Bessie's ballet drill and realizes that sometimes she might not be able to jump to her destination lilypad because intermediary lilypads are missing.

Ever thrifty, he wants to place additional lilypads so she can complete her quest (perhaps quickly, perhaps by using a large number of intermediate lilypads). Of course, lilypads cannot be placed where rocks already intrude on a cell.

Help Farmer John determine the minimum number of additional lilypads he has to place, and in how many ways he can place that minimum number.

## 输入格式

Line 1: Two space-separated integers: M and N

Lines 2..M+1: Line i+1 describes row i of the pond using N space-separated integers with these values: 0 indicates empty water; 1 indicates a lilypad in place; 2 indicates rock in place; 3 indicates the lilypad Bessie starts on; 4 indicates the lilypad Bessie wants to travel to.

## 输出格式

Line 1: One integer: the minimum number of additional lilypads required. If it is not possible to help Bessie jump to her destination, print -1.

Line 2: One integer: the total number of possible ways the additional lilypads can be positioned. This number is guaranteed to fit into a single 64-bit signed integer. Do not output this line if line 1 contains -1.

## 样例 #1

### 样例输入

```
4 5
1 0 0 0 0
3 0 0 0 0
0 0 2 0 0
0 0 0 4 0
```

### 样例输出

```
2
3
```

## 提示

The pond is divided into four rows and five columns. Bessie's starting point is in the second row and first column, and her destination is in the fourth row and fourth column. There are three lotus flowers and a stone in the pond.

At least two lotus flowers are needed, and there are three ways to place them, as shown below:

$$\begin{bmatrix}
\verb!10000! \\
\verb!30X00! \\
\verb!00200! \\
\verb!0X040! \\
\end{bmatrix},\begin{bmatrix}
\verb!10X00! \\
\verb!30000! \\
\verb!0X200! \\
\verb!00040! \\
\end{bmatrix},\begin{bmatrix}
\verb!10X00! \\
\verb!3000X! \\
\verb!00200! \\
\verb!00040! \\
\end{bmatrix}
$$
